docs/debugging_slow_builds.md, before:

# Debugging Slow Builds

Did you know that Ninja writes a log to disk after each build?

To see what kinds of files took the longest for your previous build:

```sh
cd out/Default
# Lives in depot_tools:
post_build_ninja_summary.py
```

You can also set `NINJA_SUMMARIZE_BUILD=1` to have this command run
after each `autoninja` invocation (also runs ninja with `-d stats`).

To generate a Chrome trace of your most recent build:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/nico/ninjatracing
ninjatracing/ninjatracing out/Default/.ninja_log > trace.json
# Then open in https://ui.perfetto.dev/
```

## Slow Bot Builds

Our bots run `ninjatracing` and `post_build_ninja_summary.py` as well.

Find the trace at: `postprocess_for_goma > upload_log > ninja_log`:

 * _".ninja_log in table format (full)"_ is for `post_build_ninja_summary.py`.
 * _"trace viewer (sort_by_end)"_ is for `ninjatracing`.

## Advanced(ish) Tips

* Use `gn gen --tracelog trace.json` to create a trace for `gn gen`.
* Many Android templates make use of
  [`md5_check.py`](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/build/android/gyp/util/md5_check.py)
  to optimize incremental builds.
  * Set `PRINT_BUILD_EXPLANATIONS=1` to have these commands log which inputs
    changed.
* If you suspect files are being rebuilt unnecessarily during incremental
  builds:
  * Use `ninja -n -d explain` to figure out why ninja thinks a target is dirty.
  * Ensure actions are taking advantage of ninja's `restat=1` feature by not
    updating timestamps on outputs when their contents do not change.
    * E.g. by using [`build_utils.AtomicOutput()`]

[`build_utils.AtomicOutput()`]: https://source.chromium.org/search?q=symbol:AtomicOutput%20f:build

Commit message:

Update "Debugging Slow Builds" docs
This updates the debugging slow builds docs to give more details about
what NINJA_SUMMARIZE_BUILD=1 does, and how to interpret the weighted
time numbers.

It also adds a mention of tools/buildstate.py, and updates the
instructions for finding build information on the bots.

Bug: None
Change-Id: I3eb6900012a577569c0e123e176221bf8889b768
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/4766017
Commit-Queue: Bruce Dawson <brucedawson@chromium.org>
Auto-Submit: Bruce Dawson <brucedawson@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Andrew Grieve <agrieve@chromium.org>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/main@{#1181532}
NOKEYCHECK=True
GitOrigin-RevId: d76e68103d19146735b81d90538262a460bed155

docs/debugging_slow_builds.md, after:

# Debugging Slow Builds

Did you know that Ninja writes a log to disk after each build?

To see what kinds of files took the longest for your previous build:

```sh
cd out/Default
# Lives in depot_tools:
post_build_ninja_summary.py
```

Because the build is highly parallelized the `elapsed time` values are usually
not meaningful so the `weighted time` numbers are calculated to approximate
the impact of build steps on wall-clock time.

You can also set `NINJA_SUMMARIZE_BUILD=1` to have this command run
after each `autoninja` invocation. Setting this environment variable also runs
ninja with `-d stats` which causes it to print out internal information such
as StartEdge times, which measures the times to create processes, and it
modifies the `NINJA_STATUS` environment variable to add information such as how
many processes are running at any given time - both are useful for detecting
slow process creation. You can get this last benefit on its own by setting
`NINJA_STATUS=[%r processes, %f/%t @ %o/s : %es ] ` (trailing space is
intentional).

To generate a Chrome trace of your most recent build:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/nico/ninjatracing
ninjatracing/ninjatracing out/Default/.ninja_log > trace.json
# Then open in https://ui.perfetto.dev/
```

If your build is stuck on a long-running build step you can see what it is by
running `tools/buildstate.py`.

## Slow Bot Builds

Our bots run `ninjatracing` and `post_build_ninja_summary.py` as well.

Find the trace at: `postprocess for reclient > gsutil upload ninja_log > ninja_log`:

 * _".ninja_log in table format (full)"_ is for `post_build_ninja_summary.py`.
 * _"trace viewer (sort_by_end)"_ is for `ninjatracing`.

## Advanced(ish) Tips

* Use `gn gen --tracelog trace.json` to create a trace for `gn gen`.
* Many Android templates make use of
  [`md5_check.py`](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/build/android/gyp/util/md5_check.py)
  to optimize incremental builds.
  * Set `PRINT_BUILD_EXPLANATIONS=1` to have these commands log which inputs
    changed.
* If you suspect files are being rebuilt unnecessarily during incremental
  builds:
  * Use `ninja -n -d explain` to figure out why ninja thinks a target is dirty.
  * Ensure actions are taking advantage of ninja's `restat=1` feature by not
    updating timestamps on outputs when their contents do not change.
    * E.g. by using [`build_utils.AtomicOutput()`]

[`build_utils.AtomicOutput()`]: https://source.chromium.org/search?q=symbol:AtomicOutput%20f:build
